# Azure Compute and Networking Services
<b> Via Microsoft Learn</b>

## Azure Virtual Machines (VMs)
With Azure Virtual Machines (VMs), you can create and use VMs in the cloud. VMs provide infrastructure as a service (IaaS) in the form of a virtualized server and can be used in many ways. Just like a physical computer, you can customize all of the software running on your VM. An Azure VM gives you the flexibility of virtualization without having to buy and maintain the physical hardware that runs the VM. However, as an IaaS offering, you still need to configure, update, and maintain the software that runs on the VM.

## Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets (VMSS)
With virtual machine scale sets, Azure automates most of that work. Scale sets allow you to centrally manage, configure, and update a large number of VMs in minutes. The number of VM instances can automatically increase or decrease in response to demand, or you can set it to scale based on a defined schedule. Virtual machine scale sets also automatically deploy a load balancer to make sure that your resources are being used efficiently. With virtual machine scale sets, you can build large-scale services for areas such as compute, big data, and container workloads.

## Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
- Kubernetes helps manage clusters of containers, ensuring they run efficiently and reliably. It handles tasks like load balancing, scaling applications up or down based on demand, and self-healing (restarting failed containers).
- AKS automates the management of Kubernetes control plane components, allowing users to focus on deploying and managing applications rather than the underlying infrastructure.
- The AKS service itself is free; users only pay for the virtual machines (VMs) and associated resources used by the worker nodes.

## Virtual Machine Availibility Sets
Azure Virtual Machine Availability Sets are a feature designed to enhance the availability and reliability of applications running on Azure VMs. They help ensure that your applications remain operational during planned or unplanned maintenance events.

## Azure Virtual Desktop
Azure Virtual Desktop is a desktop and application virtualization service that runs on the cloud. It enables you to use a cloud-hosted version of Windows from any location. With Azure Virtual Desktop, the data and apps are separated from the local hardware. The actual desktop and apps are running in the cloud, meaning the risk of confidential data being left on a personal device is reduced. Additionally, user sessions are isolated in both single and multi-session environments.

## Containers
Containers are similar to VMs however VMs can only run one operating system at a time. Containers simulate the OS, while VMs simulate the hardware. Containers are also more lightweight than VMs, as they simulate a single instance of a single app in its own respective OS, rather than a whole Environment. You can also run multiple Containerised applications using Cluster Orchestration. 

## Azure Functions
Azure Functions is an event-driven, serverless compute option that doesn’t require maintaining virtual machines or containers. If you build an app using VMs or containers, those resources have to be “running” in order for your app to function. With Azure Functions, an event wakes the function, alleviating the need to keep resources provisioned when there are no events.

## Azure App Service
App Service enables you to build and host web apps, background jobs, mobile back-ends, and RESTful APIs in the programming language of your choice without managing infrastructure. It offers automatic scaling and high availability. App Service supports Windows and Linux. It enables automated deployments from GitHub, Azure DevOps, or any Git repo to support a continuous deployment model.
You can host:
- Web Apps
- API Apps
- WebJobs
- Mobile Apps

## Using VPN (Virtual Private Network) in VMs
All data transfer is encrypted inside a private tunnel as it crosses the internet. You can deploy only one VPN gateway in each virtual network. However, you can use one gateway to connect to multiple locations, which includes other virtual networks or on-premises datacenters.In Azure, regardless of the VPN type, the method of authentication employed is a preshared key.
- Policy-based VPN gateways specify statically the IP address of packets that should be encrypted through each tunnel. This type of device evaluates every data packet against those sets of IP addresses to choose the tunnel where that packet is going to be sent through.
- In Route-based gateways, IPSec tunnels are modeled as a network interface or virtual tunnel interface. IP routing (either static routes or dynamic routing protocols) decides which one of these tunnel interfaces to use when sending each packet. Route-based VPNs are the preferred connection method for on-premises devices. They're more resilient to topology changes such as the creation of new subnets.

## Azure ExpressRoute
Azure ExpressRoute lets you extend your on-premises networks into the Microsoft cloud over a private connection, with the help of a connectivity provider. This connection is called an ExpressRoute Circuit. With ExpressRoute, you can establish connections to Microsoft cloud services, such as Microsoft Azure and Microsoft 365. This feature allows you to connect offices, datacenters, or other facilities to the Microsoft cloud. Each location would have its own ExpressRoute circuit.
<br><br>
Connectivity can be from an any-to-any (IP VPN) network, a point-to-point Ethernet network, or a virtual cross-connection through a connectivity provider at a colocation facility. ExpressRoute connections don't go over the public Internet. This setup allows ExpressRoute connections to offer more reliability, faster speeds, consistent latencies, and higher security than typical connections over the Internet.

## Azure DNS 
Azure DNS is a hosting service for DNS domains that provides name resolution by using Microsoft Azure infrastructure. By hosting your domains in Azure, you can manage your DNS records using the same credentials, APIs, tools, and billing as your other Azure services. Azure DNS uses the scope and scale of Microsoft Azure to provide numerous benefits, including:

- Reliability and performance
- Security
- Ease of Use
- Customizable virtual networks
- Alias records
