# Azure Storage Services
<b> Via Microsoft Learn</b>

## Azure Storage Accounts
A storage account provides a unique namespace for your Azure Storage data that's accessible from anywhere in the world over HTTP or HTTPS. Data in this account is secure, highly available, durable, and massively scalable.

## Azure Storage Redundancy
Azure Storage always stores multiple copies of your data so that it's protected from planned and unplanned events such as transient hardware failures, network or power outages, and natural disasters. Redundancy ensures that your storage account meets its availability and durability targets even in the face of failures.

### Locally redundant storage
Locally redundant storage (LRS) replicates your data three times within a single data center in the primary region. LRS provides at least 11 nines of durability (99.999999999%) of objects over a given year.

### Zone redundant storage
For Availability Zone-enabled Regions, zone-redundant storage (ZRS) replicates your Azure Storage data synchronously across three Azure availability zones in the primary region. ZRS offers durability for Azure Storage data objects of at least 12 nines (99.9999999999%) over a given year.

### Geo redundant storage
GRS copies your data synchronously three times within a single physical location in the primary region using LRS. It then copies your data asynchronously to a single physical location in the secondary region (the region pair) using LRS. GRS offers durability for Azure Storage data objects of at least 16 nines (99.99999999999999%) over a given year.

### Geo Zone redundant storage
GZRS combines the high availability provided by redundancy across availability zones with protection from regional outages provided by geo-replication. Data in a GZRS storage account is copied across three Azure availability zones in the primary region (similar to ZRS) and is also replicated to a secondary geographic region, using LRS, for protection from regional disasters.   

## Azure Blob Storage
Azure Blob Storage is a service for storing large amounts of unstructured data such as images, videos, audio, and documents. It is a fully managed, highly available, and durable storage solution for any kind of data. It is designed to be cost-effective, simple to use, and scale with your needs.
### Blob Storage Tiers
- <b>Hot access tier:</b> Optimized for storing data that is accessed frequently (for example, images for your website).
- <b>Cool access tier:</b> Optimized for data that is infrequently accessed and stored for at least 30 days (for example, invoices for your customers).
- <b>Cold access tier:</b> Optimized for storing data that is infrequently accessed and stored for at least 90 days.
- <b>Archive access tier:</b> Appropriate for data that is rarely accessed and stored for at least 180 days, with flexible latency requirements (for example, long-term backups).

## Azure File Storage
Azure File Storage is a fully managed file share service that allows you to share files across your organization. It is a cost-effective, highly available, and durable storage solution for any kind of data. It is designed to be simple to use, scale with your needs, and provide a secure, durable storage solution.

## Azure Table Storage
Azure Table Storage is a NoSQL key-value store that allows you to store large amounts of structured and unstructured data. It is a fully managed, highly available, and durable storage solution for any kind of data. It is designed to be cost-effective, simple to use, and scale with your needs.

## Azure Queue Storage
Azure Queue Storage is a service for storing messages as they travel between components of a distributed application. It is a fully managed, highly available, and durable storage solution for any kind of data. 

## Azure Disk Storage
Azure Disk Storage is a service for creating and managing virtual hard disks (VHDs) for Azure virtual machines. It is a fully managed, highly available, and durable storage solution for any kind of data. 

## Azure Migrate
Azure Migrate is a service that helps you migrate from an on-premises environment to the cloud. Azure Migrate functions as a hub to help you manage the assessment and migration of your on-premises datacenter to Azure.
### Data Migration Assistant
Data Migration Assistant is a stand-alone tool to assess SQL Servers. It helps pinpoint potential problems blocking migration. It identifies unsupported features, new features that can benefit you after migration, and the right path for database migration.
### Azure Data Box
Azure Data Box is a physical migration service that helps transfer large amounts of data in a quick, inexpensive, and reliable way. The secure data transfer is accelerated by shipping you a proprietary Data Box storage device that has a maximum usable storage capacity of 80 terabytes. The Data Box is transported to and from your datacenter via a regional carrier. A rugged case protects and secures the Data Box from damage during transit.

## AzCopy
AzCopy is a command-line utility that you can use to copy blobs or files to or from your storage account. With AzCopy, you can upload files, download files, copy files between storage accounts, and even synchronize files. AzCopy can even be configured to work with other cloud providers to help move files back and forth between clouds.

## Azure Storage Explorer
Azure Storage Explorer is a standalone app that provides a graphical interface to manage files and blobs in your Azure Storage Account. It works on Windows, macOS, and Linux operating systems and uses AzCopy on the backend to perform all of the file and blob management tasks. With Storage Explorer, you can upload to Azure, download from Azure, or move between storage accounts.

## Azure File Sync
Azure File Sync is a tool that lets you centralize your file shares in Azure Files and keep the flexibility, performance, and compatibility of a Windows file server. It’s almost like turning your Windows file server into a miniature content delivery network. Once you install Azure File Sync on your local Windows server, it will automatically stay bi-directionally synced with your files in Azure.

